what is up guys karma medic here and
welcome back to another dose you guys
don't know who I am my name is Nasir I'm
a second year medical student at King's
College London and I make these YouTube
videos to help you guys with anything
medical school related today I'm going
to be going through section one of the
Bema the critical thinking on problem
solving section we're gonna start with a
couple of general tips on the section
and then we'll jump straight into
solving questions live on camera so that
you guys can see my thought process for
each question and see how I solve it if
you guys want to see more videos like
this where I go through different
sections of the Bema make sure you leave
a like on this video and subscribe to my
channel so that you know when those
videos are released before we begin I
want to say thank you to modify for
sponsoring this video when I did a
similar series on the UK account over
the summer a lot of students told me
they didn't want me to use the official
UK account resources because they wanted
to save those resources for themselves
when they were practicing for the exam
so I've listened to you guys and I'm
gonna be using medified question Bank
for this video
and you guys can use the official B my
past papers for your own revision if you
guys want to check out modify I'll leave
links in the description you can go see
their website they offer a range of
courses for the UK can't the Bema on
personal statements okay so first things
first general tips to section 1 is all
about critical thinking and good
problem-solving skills the first thing
that I'll say is that you don't need any
prior knowledge to solve this part of
the exam you just need to go in know how
to analyze data and come to conclusions
number two if you're stuck on any given
question and you're spending anywhere
over that amount of time just guess mark
it and move on you can always come back
to it later and see if you can give it
another go but if you're getting stuck
on a question definitely move on it's
not worth wasting your time the third
thing is that all questions in section 1
are worth the exact same amount so you
want to do as many easy questions as
possible the questions that you know you
can actually answer and then come back
to the more difficult ones later the
fourth thing is that you need to learn
to read quickly you're gonna have to
quickly read a passage that might be
either short or long and you want to
take on the key points the main
conclusions out of that so that you can
answer the questions efficiently so
improving your reading skills will
definitely be something useful here the
fifth thing is that it's really
important to know what the question is
asking of you under the critical
thinking heading there's going to be
lots of different questions that can be
asked for example what are the main
conclusions of this passage which of
these statements if true would either
weaken or strengthen the
of the passage which of these statements
would be the biggest flaw for the
passage things like that you want to
make sure you know what the different
question types are so that you know what
it is that you're doing in order to
answer those questions and lastly you
are not allowed to use a calendar and
lastly you are not allowed to use a
calculator so do not practice with the
calculator do not have a cheeky little
calculator on the side while you're
doing these questions throw your
calculator away in your drawer and just
focus on using mental maths and a pen
and paper to solve the math related
questions being able to round up or down
and guesstimate the answer is going to
be very important in being able to do
these questions quickly so definitely
brush up on your mental maths obviously
this will also be important in the
physics section in Section two alright
enough my general tips let's jump
straight into the questions alright guys
so here I am on medified it's BMAC
question Bank I'm gonna start by solving
the problem solving questions and then
I'll move on to critical thinking
questions so for problem solving let's
get started I've also got a pen and
paper here with me in case I need to
write anything down and of course I
suggest that you guys do the same ok so
question 1 a group of friends hire our
Spanish villa they split the cost of the
villa between them contributing 26
pounds each if there had been six more
friends sharing the cost of the villa
each person would have to contribute
16.25 how many friends hire out the
villa together originally so a group of
friends that's called an ex split the
cost of oil between them contributing 26
each so some total number divided by a
group of friends X is equal to 26 okay
now if there had been six more friends
during across the villa each person
would have had to contribute this so we
have another equation that says sum
total number we're gonna call it Y now
we have the same total number y again
over X plus six is equal to sixteen
point two five so now let's solve these
two equations we have y equals 26 X on
the left side and y equals sixteen point
two five x plus six times sixteen point
two five plus ninety seven point five so
now we know that y equals twenty six X
on the Left we'll plug that Y into the
equation Y on the right so what we end
up with is our total equation is twenty
six x equals sixteen point two five x
plus ninety seven point five if we solve
that for X we get
ten friends okay awesome next question
whoa okay so this is a lot of
information I'm first going to read the
possible arguments that could be can be
concluded and then the information I
would usually do this other way around
but because there's so much information
here I'm gonna do that first for Conda
there appears to be an increase in the
rate of publication from year 2000
whilst not from Australia slows from the
8004 so Canada increased from 2000 2000
which one of these is Canada blue Canada
an increase okay true was from Australia
there's a slope in 2004 2004 Australia
there is not a slow here so one is
definitely false - was the rate of US
publications increased between 1919 2005
19 19 2005 us a increased true the share
of US publications relative to the world
total decreased over this period hmm
okay I would say that that's probably
true because all of the other ones are
increasing as well so that's probably
true
so too true for both Australia and the
US there was a higher than trend number
of applications in 2002 followed by drop
in 2003 us on Australia in 2009 - okay
there was a higher than expected from
the trend okay that's true here
sorry that was Canada okay that's true
here and for the u.s. that's true as
well followed by a drop in 2003 I agree
with that okay so I agree with two and
three options two and three only okay so
I got it right so this is a really
important lesson as you guys can see
there is so much information here this
is all way too much information if you
actually sat down to read that you would
be here forever so I just skipped all
this and went straight to the
conclusions I realized from the
conclusions that I only need to look at
the graph and that's how I managed to
save time on this question and only read
what's relevant
so make a judgement if you guys think
the paragraph is really small maybe you
can skim through it and then jump to the
conclusions but for something like this
I think the best strategy was definitely
to go for reading the conclusions first
and then getting the relevant material
from the text and my mom is about to
dice let's put that in stay alive we
have a lot of questions to do all right
next question
again there's quite a lot of information
I'm gonna skip to what the question is
asking for and then work backwards so on
the basis of the above data which of the
following is a reliable conclusion
generally the older a woman suffering
from cervical cancer the higher the
likelihood she will die from cervical
cancer in the UK new cases deaths age
group so are there more deaths per
100,000 the older you get that
definitely seems to be the case so that
sounds good let's take a look at other
ones if a woman between the ages of 50
and 64 so here and here
undertakes screening for cervical cancer
she reduces her risk of cervical cancer
where do we talk about that so although
several kinds screening programs for
women who have not been screened between
50 and 60 for the 20-year risk rises a
lot okay but that doesn't mean that if
you do get screened it reduces the risk
so it's kind of similar but not exactly
the same in the UK there were a greater
number of women aged 50 to 54 than women
aged 45 to 49 in the 2800 thousand nine
2011 period thousand nine I wasn't
loving I don't think we can tell that
from this graph this isn't about total
population this is about cases of
cervical cancer a woman under the age of
15 cannot have cervical cancer well over
here it shows that no one under the age
of 15 in this period did have cervical
cancer but that doesn't mean that it's
not possible so I'm gonna go with a the
original answer that we chose awesome
okay so yeah we eliminated all the other
answers because they simply weren't true
and a is the best one okay what is the
total number of squares in the above
shape oh okay that's interesting let's
start keeping it tallies so let's start
with all the biggest ones and work down
towards smaller ones so biggest one one
okay then 2 then 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
and 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 20 okay
clearly there's some more hidden
squares in the shape 21 22 23 24 and
then I don't know if I'm gonna find the
25th somewhere so I'm gonna go with 24
Oh awesome
okay I'm so happy I got that right I was
gonna feel really a tricked if I didn't
get all those all those squares okay
next question
the table below shows the annual
complication rate falling cannula
insertion across six surgical wards in
this hospital over three years what is
the correct order in terms of lowest to
highest increase between 2014 2015
lowest increase so we have two three
seven one so this might be first eight
six and that's the total so where's the
one so okapi is first so I'm gonna put o
then so we immediately eliminate B and C
then after that what we need to decide
between qw w so Q was 6 and W was 2 so
the next biggest increase is W so it's
one of these two then we need to decide
between G and Q we already know Q is 6
so G is 3 so we know G's next so it's D
so another way to really quickly save
time and fly through these kinds of
questions is that you don't want to
first look at all the differences and
then try and rearrange them in order and
look at what comes first what comes
second what comes third you want to use
the answers to help you narrow down the
past that you want to look at we just
look at the answers and we know the
first decision we have to make is
between okapi which are these three and
wallaby once we make that decision from
the answers the only next things we can
choose are quo or wallaby so we need to
decide either qual that wall becomes
next then once we've decided it's copy
followed by wallaby we just need to
decide between Galago and quo that means
we never even looked at EMU we never
even looked at lemur and we saved so
many comparisons in the middle so make
sure you guys use the answers to help
you now down what information you're
looking for in the question my alarm
clock is a 24 hour digital clock so that
for instance 214 kids is this okay one
morning I woke up and knocked my alarm
clock went to the floor and saw that
panicked I think I had overslept I read
something upside down it was only 11
minutes past five now which one of the
phone times with a display appear the
same which ever way up I saw the clock
5:51 a.m. would be all five five one so
if you turn that around that's not the
same 551 p
would be 1751 sono 101 am would be au
101 which around would be 1010 sono 321
p.m. would be 1 5 2 1 upside-down would
be 1 2 5 1 almost 350 1 p.m. would be 15
5 1 which upside down would be 15 5 1 so
it's easy so just write out each one of
these alarm clocks the right side up and
then flip your piece of paper upside
down to see what it would look like
upside down awesome
next question okay I think that's enough
for the problem solving questions
I'm now going to move on to the critical
thinking questions and see what we can
do there critical thinking questions I
actually find these a little bit easier
because I find them more like the VR
section on the UK cats so let's take a
look at a couple of things of
environmental impact which of the
following is a conclusion that can be
drawn companies are free to choose
whether they adopt bottom line
accounting doesn't sound like exercise
not that are required they need to have
a positive social environment in fact
can adversely affect financial success
ok potentially according to triple
bottom line accounting a successful
company would by friend would be
financially environmentally and socially
successful this sounds correct includes
environmental and social factors along
with economic okay so in order to have
that you would have to be successful all
those who can triple bottom line
considers the three variables people
planet profit in decreasing order of
importance we definitely kind of decide
that I'm gonna go with the scene awesome
next question the newborn baby babies
which is a fine if true most weekends
the above argument so the above argument
is saying baby formula should be banned
so something that would weaken that is
something that shows baby formulas are
actually good so SIDS constitutes only
of 0.9 infant deaths okay there are
various baby formula makes it suitable
for specific stages of baby development
might be good 20 amino acid is available
in various baby formula mixes that would
help weaken but the last part of this
argument but not the full part of the
this paragraphs argument health benefits
of breast milk depend directly on
mothers nutrition that's also not bad 20
percent of young mothers are unable to
produce most personal that's good too
okay so Bede seem like decent answers to
this question so let's find out what the
core conclusion of the top paragraph is
because that's the one that we want a
weak
the most so newborn babies are more
frequently prone to SIDS
this is gonna see shows that if that
solely breast milk a lot of deaths would
be prevented a vitally important feature
those concepts are dynamically precisely
formulated direct proportion to the
development experience of the baby so be
directly tackles this part of the thing
D kind of attacks the whole argument
that health benefits of breast milk
depend directly on mothers nutrition
which could vary and then e 20% of young
mothers aren't even able to produce
breast milk I think this might be the
most because they're saying that if that
solely breast milk instead of infant
formulas deaths of these infants would
be prevented annually I think it's D I
think it's D here okay
awesome let's see what the reasoning for
not he was he would pose a good argument
okay great but the argument for binding
here rests on difference between breast
milk and formula whereas D comes play
suggests there's another variable
questioning the detriment and thus the
rationale okay cool so it's the
employees at a garden center are paid a
basic rate of 11 pounds per hour during
the weekdays and leave the evenings on
mossad days they're paid out one and a
half times the basic rate and on Sundays
they're paid at double when I was
working by the best employees last week
which employ earned the most okay
Monday to Friday daytime when they
Friday evenings and weekend so that's
the same and Sunday's who work the most
Sunday's this person ain't but 27 hours
here and the second most was 6 and 6 and
they were 32 and 30 so really we're
debating between this person 32 8 and 6
or twenty seven eight and eight so 6
times 11 is 66 times 1.5 is about 99 so
let's say she earned 99 extras
extra from Sundays and with Monday to
Friday daytime 32 times 11 350 - 350 -
plus 99 is 4 5 1 okay and then bill 20 7
times 11 which is 297 plus 8 Sundays so
8 times 11 88 times 1.5 is 132 so 297 +
132 is 4 to 9 so an SS see I made more
awesome that was a pretty simple math
question just make sure you have the
equations right you have the numbers
right
and your mental math is on point or your
handwritten math but the math without a
calculator needs to be on point for sure
the rate for the donation of organs
after death in the UK which of the
following if true would most strengthen
the argument in the passage above
grieved relatives find donation
decisions very distressing you know the
number of voluntary organ donors is
small and not increasing that's good to
improve to strengthen the argument the
passage north organs donated are
suitable for transplant not weakened
there would be opposition by civil
liberty groups to this measure we can if
it is not known how many people would
opt out of the compulsory scheme not
weaken so I'm gonna go with be awesome
both sugar and artificial sweeteners are
composed only of glucose and fructose
which of the following is an assumption
or assumptions of online passage some
effects of overconsumption food cannot
be mitigated by any other factors it is
assuming this actually it's assuming
that leptin is the only thing that
controls this so one is an assumption
leptin regulates the sensation of hunger
this is another assumption one and two
our kind of tight close together glucose
has a greater impact on leptin not
fructose doesn't really talk about the
glucose effectiveness I'm gonna go with
1 and 2 when I'm to is not an option so
I'm gonna go with 1 2 & 3
ok so in that case I knew that 1 & 2
were correct assumptions and I didn't
think that 3 was correct but since the
answers doesn't have a 1 & 2 option but
I still know one into a right I can only
choose one two and three you can see how
even without knowing a hundred percent
of what is correct you can still come to
the correct conclusion and get the right
answer health services should find
better ways to which one of the
following best expresses the conclusions
1/4 patients of high PSA are being
wrongly treated not really the most
effective ways of screening of prostate
cancers are needed this is definitely
true this is the argument I would say
health services could save money
currently spent on us a diagnose
procedures I mean that's probably true
but it's not the core conclusion of the
argument and a large prostate my most
common ABC has no medical significance
it's not saying that there's no medical
significance it's just saying that it's
not always the case for each individual
person so I'm definitely gonna go with B
ok awesome
children are being encouraged to take up
cookies wasn't it in the toilet which of
the following if true would most weaken
the above argument the practical
experience of cooking is
non-traditional academic subject not
really the events to encourage children
to cook also included stands where junk
food was for sale okay some schools do
not have cooking facilities tends to be
older people who are instant cooking and
making their own food most children have
enjoyed the events provided but have not
gained an interest including himself
this is definitely in a weakened
argument is it saying everything that
they're trying to do isn't really
working their whole purpose is that if
we get children to take these cooking
classes they're probably going to be
more interested but if this was true
that they attended the cooking classes
and they participated but they still
weren't interested then that would
definitely be weakening the argument
okay is right awesome okay guys I think
that's why I'm gonna call it for today
we've done both critical thinking and
problem solving questions I hope I've
been able to talk you through my
thinking and my logic when answering
these questions that I've hopefully
showed you how to tackle them yourself
if you guys found this useful definitely
leave a thumbs up on this video
subscribe to my channel if you want to
see more videos from me and more videos
like this I'll be making more videos on
section 2 and section 3 of the be mad
exam as well so make sure you stay tuned
for those alright guys I hope you've
enjoyed and I'll see you in the next one
peace